_recipes/chili_con_carne.md, before:

---
title: G's Chili Con Carne
subtitle: Simply the best.
image:
  href: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9964605/188196194-dba08c1f-4a7b-459d-ace4-21abb82a0fe5.jpeg
  alt_text: "bowl of chili, via Pexels"
  attribution:
    href: https://www.pexels.com/photo/meat-dish-1618906/
    name: pexels.com
ingredients:
  - 2 lb ground beef, preferably 80-85% lean
  - 2 lb hot Italian sausage, ground or skinless
  - ~2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce
  - 4 medium yellow onions, chopped
  - 4 cloves garlic, minced
  - 1 green bell pepper, chopped
  - 1 red bell pepper, chopped
  - Hot peppers; 5 serranos OR 2 long hots, or whatever combo you like; chopped
  - 48 oz crushed tomato
  - 6 oz tomato paste
  - 60 oz canned beans (see footnotes)
  - 30 oz whole kernel corn (if canned, drain the water)
  - 1 heaping tbsp salt
  - 2 tbsp dark brown sugar
  - 1 tbsp cocoa powder
  - 1/2 cup chili powder
  - 1 heaping tbsp ground cumin
  - 1 heaping tbsp crushed red pepper
  - 1 heaping tsp ground cayenne pepper
  - 2 tbsp and 2 tsp distilled white vinegar
directions:
  - |
    Add all canned ingredients (tomatoes, beans, corn), spices (salt, sugar, chili powder, cumin, crushed red pepper, ground cayenne), and vinegar to the chili pot. Turn heat on low and cover, then continue.
  - |
    In a large skillet, brown ground beef over medium heat with worcestershire sauce (about 1 tbsp per pound). When finished, drain fat (but reserve about 1 tbsp in the pan), then add meat to the chili pot.
    - As it cooks, let the meat sit still for 2-3 minutes at a time so the bottom layer gets the right color. If you stir too much, it will cook but not brown: it will turn grey, in which case you have boiled it and lost some of the flavor profile.
    - After those 2-3 minutes, chop the meat with a wooden spoon to break it down, stir it, and repeat.
    - All of the beef should have that dark brown color and be a bit dry, but not charred and burned (don’t worry, it will get its moisture back from the chili itself).
  - |
    In the same pan as the beef was browned in, saute onions until tender. Add garlic and continue to cook for 1-2 minutes until fragrant, then add all into the chili pot.
  - |
    Remove any skins from sausages. Add sausage meat to the skillet, then press it flat to create one large sausage patty.  Brown on both sides until cooked through. Remove meat to a large bowl. Use a wooden spoon or pastry cutter to break sausage meat down into bite size pieces. Add sausage chunks to the chili pot.
  - |
    Lightly fry the bell peppers chunks and serrano pepper slices for about 3-4 minutes, then add to the pot.
  - |
    Simmer the chili pot uncovered over low heat for 1 hour, stirring occasionally so the bottom doesn't burn.
  - |
    Remove from heat and let sit for 10 minutes. Contents will still be very hot in the center!
  - |
    Serve and enjoy.
footnotes:
  - |
    **Beans**: I like a mix of dark red kidney, pinto, black, and cannellini beans; one 15oz can each.
  - |
    **Chili powder**: not just any store brand will do. I like using [El Diente Southwestern Seasoning from Savory Spice](https://www.savoryspiceshop.com/products/el-diente-southwestern-seasoning). It bills itself as a seasoning or rub, but I find it can just replace chili powder in any recipe calling for it, to great success.
prep_time: 15
cook_time: 30
servings: 20
---

My own personal chili recipe. More than just meat and beans in a sauce, the balance of spices, the bell peppers, the touch of sweetness; all comes together into a melting pot of excellence. Serve with rice or pasta, with some cheese, some sour cream, maybe even some chips. Not so good on hot dogs, I'm afraid.

Commit message:

fix: correct stats for the chili recipe

_recipes/chili_con_carne.md, after:

---
title: G's Chili Con Carne
subtitle: Simply the best.
image:
  href: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9964605/188196194-dba08c1f-4a7b-459d-ace4-21abb82a0fe5.jpeg
  alt_text: "bowl of chili, via Pexels"
  attribution:
    href: https://www.pexels.com/photo/meat-dish-1618906/
    name: pexels.com
ingredients:
  - 2 lb ground beef, preferably 80-85% lean
  - 2 lb hot Italian sausage, ground or skinless
  - ~2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce
  - 4 medium yellow onions, chopped
  - 4 cloves garlic, minced
  - 1 green bell pepper, chopped
  - 1 red bell pepper, chopped
  - Hot peppers; 5 serranos OR 2 long hots, or whatever combo you like; chopped
  - 48 oz crushed tomato
  - 6 oz tomato paste
  - 60 oz canned beans (see footnotes)
  - 30 oz whole kernel corn (if canned, drain the water)
  - 1 heaping tbsp salt
  - 2 tbsp dark brown sugar
  - 1 tbsp cocoa powder
  - 1/2 cup chili powder
  - 1 heaping tbsp ground cumin
  - 1 heaping tbsp crushed red pepper
  - 1 heaping tsp ground cayenne pepper
  - 2 tbsp and 2 tsp distilled white vinegar
directions:
  - |
    Add all canned ingredients (tomatoes, beans, corn), spices (salt, sugar, chili powder, cumin, crushed red pepper, ground cayenne), and vinegar to the chili pot. Turn heat on low and cover, then continue.
  - |
    In a large skillet, brown ground beef over medium heat with worcestershire sauce (about 1 tbsp per pound). When finished, drain fat (but reserve about 1 tbsp in the pan), then add meat to the chili pot.
    - As it cooks, let the meat sit still for 2-3 minutes at a time so the bottom layer gets the right color. If you stir too much, it will cook but not brown: it will turn grey, in which case you have boiled it and lost some of the flavor profile.
    - After those 2-3 minutes, chop the meat with a wooden spoon to break it down, stir it, and repeat.
    - All of the beef should have that dark brown color and be a bit dry, but not charred and burned (don’t worry, it will get its moisture back from the chili itself).
  - |
    In the same pan as the beef was browned in, saute onions until tender. Add garlic and continue to cook for 1-2 minutes until fragrant, then add all into the chili pot.
  - |
    Remove any skins from sausages. Add sausage meat to the skillet, then press it flat to create one large sausage patty.  Brown on both sides until cooked through. Remove meat to a large bowl. Use a wooden spoon or pastry cutter to break sausage meat down into bite size pieces. Add sausage chunks to the chili pot.
  - |
    Lightly fry the bell peppers chunks and serrano pepper slices for about 3-4 minutes, then add to the pot.
  - |
    Simmer the chili pot uncovered over low heat for 1 hour, stirring occasionally so the bottom doesn't burn.
  - |
    Remove from heat and let sit for 10 minutes. Contents will still be very hot in the center!
  - |
    Serve and enjoy.
footnotes:
  - |
    **Beans**: I like a mix of dark red kidney, pinto, black, and cannellini beans; one 15oz can each.
  - |
    **Chili powder**: not just any store brand will do. I like using [El Diente Southwestern Seasoning from Savory Spice](https://www.savoryspiceshop.com/products/el-diente-southwestern-seasoning). It bills itself as a seasoning or rub, but I find it can just replace chili powder in any recipe calling for it, to great success.
prep_time: 30
cook_time: 90
servings: 24
---

My own personal chili recipe. More than just meat and beans in a sauce, the balance of spices, the bell peppers, the touch of sweetness; all comes together into a melting pot of excellence. Serve with rice or pasta, with some cheese, some sour cream, maybe even some chips. Not so good on hot dogs, I'm afraid.

Note this is a **big** recipe, and I almost never cook less than a full batch. If you want to experiment with cutting it down and removing certain ingredients, by all means: but I assure you, what's written here is perfection.
