docs/recipes/chicken_corn_chowder.md, before:

---
template: recipe.html
title: Chicken Corn Chowder
subtitle: Comfort food that warms the soul during the colder months.
stats:
  prep_minutes: 2
  cook_minutes: 1
  servings: 4
---

## Ingredients
<div class="recipe-ingredients" markdown>

- [ ] 2 Tbsp olive oil
- [ ] 2 lb boneless skinless chicken breast, cut into 1-inch cubes
- [ ] 1/2 lb bacon
- [ ] 4 cups russet potatoes, diced
- [ ] 2 cups white onion, diced
- [ ] 1 cup celery, diced
- [ ] 1 cup carrot, diced
- [ ] 6 Tbsp flour
- [ ] 32 oz chicken broth
- [ ] 2 tsp seasoned salt
- [ ] 1 Tbsp salt
- [ ] 1 tsp black pepper
- [ ] 30 oz whole corn (2 cans, water drained)
- [ ] 3 cups half-and-half
- [ ] 14.5 oz diced tomatoes (1 can)

</div>

## Directions
<div class="recipe-directions" markdown>

1. Using a Dutch oven, add olive oil then heat up over medium heat. Add chicken and cook until browned on all sides, without needing to cook all the way through (about 1 minute per side). Remove chicken from Dutch oven and set aside.
2. Add bacon to the Dutch oven and cook through. Remove cooked bacon and leave bacon fat in the pan. Add butter as needed to make about 3 Tbsp of fat.
3. Add celery, potatoes, onions, and carrots to the Dutch oven. Saute, stirring constantly, until onion and celery are tender. Stir flour into the mixture until well-incorporated.
4. Add chicken broth, seasoned salt, salt, and black pepper. Stir to blend well. Continue cooking and stirring until thickened slightly. Reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer for 12 minutes.
5. Add chicken and corn back to the pot. Simmer for 7 minutes longer, until vegetables are tender.
6. Add half-and-half and dice tomatoes. Heat through and season to taste. Allow to cool slightly before serving.

</div>

Commit message:

feat: tags added to current recipes + minor edits

docs/recipes/chicken_corn_chowder.md, after:

---
template: recipe.html
title: Chicken Corn Chowder
subtitle: Comfort food that warms the soul during the colder months.
stats:
  prep_minutes: 10
  cook_minutes: 30
  servings: 4
tags:
  - chicken
  - corn
  - soup
  - cuisine/american
---

## Ingredients
<div class="recipe-ingredients" markdown>

- [ ] 2 tbsp olive oil
- [ ] 2 lb boneless skinless chicken breast, cut into 1-inch cubes
- [ ] 1/2 lb bacon
- [ ] 4 cups russet potatoes, diced
- [ ] 2 cups white onion, diced
- [ ] 1 cup celery, diced
- [ ] 1 cup carrot, diced
- [ ] 6 tbsp flour
- [ ] 32 oz chicken broth
- [ ] 2 tsp seasoned salt
- [ ] 1 tbsp salt
- [ ] 1 tsp black pepper
- [ ] 30 oz whole corn (2 cans, water drained)
- [ ] 3 cups half-and-half
- [ ] 14.5 oz diced tomatoes (1 can)

</div>

## Directions
<div class="recipe-directions" markdown>

1. Using a Dutch oven, add olive oil then heat up over medium heat. Add chicken and cook until browned on all sides, without needing to cook all the way through (about 1 minute per side). Remove chicken from Dutch oven and set aside.
2. Add bacon to the Dutch oven and cook through. Remove cooked bacon and leave bacon fat in the pan. Add butter as needed to make about 3 tbsp of fat.
3. Add celery, potatoes, onions, and carrots to the Dutch oven. Saute, stirring constantly, until onion and celery are tender. Stir flour into the mixture until well-incorporated.
4. Add chicken broth, seasoned salt, salt, and black pepper. Stir to blend well. Continue cooking and stirring until thickened slightly. Reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer for 12 minutes.
5. Add chicken and corn back to the pot. Simmer for 7 minutes longer, until vegetables are tender.
6. Add half-and-half and dice tomatoes. Heat through and season to taste. Allow to cool slightly before serving.

</div>
