docs/recipes/red_wine_pot_roast.md, before:

---
template: recipe.html
title: Red Wine Pot Roast
subtitle: Melt-in-your-mouth, red wine-braised, savory goodness
stats:
  prep_minutes: 30
  cook_minutes: 240
  servings: 6
tags:
  - beef
  - cuisine/american
  - slow cook
---

<!--
    Template
    All the above keys in the template are required in a new recipe.

    Content below will be displayed as-is.

    The wrapping divs for `ingredients`, `directions`, and `footnotes` supply custom styling to their contents.
-->

From [sweetandsavorymeals.com](https://sweetandsavorymeals.com/red-wine-pot-roast-recipe/):

!!! quote
    This pot roast just melts in your mouth! The beef is braised for hours in a savory red wine sauce for tender, flavorful shreds with a slight crisp. This is a no-frills dish that’s ideal for any occasion.

## Ingredients
<!-- Must include this wrapper div -->
<div class="recipe-ingredients" markdown>

<!--
    Each item should be written in task list form,
    `- [ ] text`
    Custom styling takes over from there.
-->
- [ ] 4-5 lb beef chuck roast
- [ ] 2 tbsp canola oil
- [ ] 2 tsp Kosher salt
- [ ] 1 tsp ground black pepper
- [ ] 1 tsp fresh thyme, finely chopped
- [ ] 1 tsp fresh rosemary, finely chopped
- [ ] 1/2 tsp dried oregano
- [ ] 1/2 tsp Italian seasoning
- [ ] 1 yellow onion, finely diced
- [ ] 1 yellow onion, quartered
- [ ] 4 cloves garlic, minced
- [ ] 4 cloves garlic, whole
- [ ] 1/4 cup tomato paste
- [ ] 2 cups beef broth
- [ ] 1 tbsp worcestershire sauce
- [ ] 2 cups red wine [^1]
- [ ] 2 cups carrots, cut into 2-inch chunks
- [ ] 3 sprigs fresh rosemary
- [ ] 2 bay leaves

[^1]: I usually just get one bottle of red cooking wine and call it a day, but a bottle of the real stuff can bring out more flavor (and it's nice to finish the rest of the bottle with the dinner!).

</div>

## Directions
<!-- Must include this wrapper div -->
<div class="recipe-directions" markdown>

<!--
    Should be an ordered list at the top level
-->
1. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Season the chuck roast with salt and pepper.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** chuck roast; salt and pepper to taste.

2. Place a large **dutch oven** over medium heat and add the canola oil. Once hot, add the meat and brown it, 3-4 minutes on each side. Set the roast aside on a plate.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 2 tbsp canola oil.

    !!! warning
        These next few steps move quickly!

3. Add the diced onion and minced garlic to the dutch oven. Cook and stir for about 1 minute.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 1 yellow onion, diced; 4 cloves garlic, minced.

4. Add chopped thyme, chopped rosemary, dried oregano, and Italian seasoning. Cook and stir for about 1 minute longer.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 1 tsp fresh thyme, finely chopped; 1 tsp fresh rosemary, finely chopped; 1/2 tsp dried oregano; 1/2 tsp Italian seasoning

5. Add tomato paste. Cook for about 1 minute longer.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 1/4 cup tomato paste.

6. Add the beef broth, Worcestershire sauce, and red wine, then scrape the bottom of the dutch oven. Return the roast to the dutch oven.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 2 cups beef broth; 1 tbsp worcestershire sauce; 2 cups red wine.

7. Add the quartered onion, whole garlic cloves, carrots, rosemary sprigs, and bay leaves to the dutch oven.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 1 yellow onion, quartered; 4 cloves garlic, whole; 2 cups carrots; 3 sprigs fresh rosemary; 2 bay leaves.

8. Cover and cook in the oven for 3-4 hours or until fork-tender.

Commit message:

fix: adjustments to pot roast instructions
A similar recipe called for the aluminum foil seal,
which definitely makes sense.
My own pot that I used recently does not seal too well,
but the foil would create that barrier
to prevent the meat from drying out as it roasts.

docs/recipes/red_wine_pot_roast.md, after:

---
template: recipe.html
title: Red Wine Pot Roast
subtitle: Melt-in-your-mouth, red wine-braised, savory goodness
stats:
  prep_minutes: 30
  cook_minutes: 240
  servings: 6
tags:
  - beef
  - cuisine/american
  - slow cook
---

<!--
    Template
    All the above keys in the template are required in a new recipe.

    Content below will be displayed as-is.

    The wrapping divs for `ingredients`, `directions`, and `footnotes` supply custom styling to their contents.
-->

From [sweetandsavorymeals.com](https://sweetandsavorymeals.com/red-wine-pot-roast-recipe/):

!!! quote
    This pot roast just melts in your mouth! The beef is braised for hours in a savory red wine sauce for tender, flavorful shreds with a slight crisp. This is a no-frills dish that’s ideal for any occasion.

## Ingredients
<!-- Must include this wrapper div -->
<div class="recipe-ingredients" markdown>

<!--
    Each item should be written in task list form,
    `- [ ] text`
    Custom styling takes over from there.
-->
- [ ] 4-5 lb beef chuck roast
- [ ] 2 tbsp canola oil
- [ ] 2 tsp Kosher salt
- [ ] 1 tsp ground black pepper
- [ ] 1 tsp fresh thyme, finely chopped
- [ ] 1 tsp fresh rosemary, finely chopped
- [ ] 1/2 tsp dried oregano
- [ ] 1/2 tsp Italian seasoning
- [ ] 1 yellow onion, finely diced
- [ ] 1 yellow onion, quartered
- [ ] 4 cloves garlic, minced
- [ ] 4 cloves garlic, whole
- [ ] 1/4 cup tomato paste
- [ ] 2 cups beef broth
- [ ] 1 tbsp worcestershire sauce
- [ ] 2 cups red wine [^1]
- [ ] 2 cups carrots, cut into 2-inch chunks
- [ ] 3 sprigs fresh rosemary
- [ ] 2 bay leaves

[^1]: I usually just get one bottle of red cooking wine and call it a day, but a bottle of the real stuff can bring out more flavor (and it's nice to finish the rest of the bottle with the dinner!).

</div>

## Directions
<!-- Must include this wrapper div -->
<div class="recipe-directions" markdown>

<!--
    Should be an ordered list at the top level
-->
1. Adjust oven rack to lowest level to allow space for a large pot. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Season the chuck roast with salt and pepper.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** chuck roast; salt and pepper to taste.

2. Place a large **dutch oven**, or other large **oven-safe** pot, over medium heat and add the canola oil. Once hot, add the meat and brown it, 3-4 minutes on each side. Set the roast aside on a plate.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 2 tbsp canola oil.

    !!! warning
        These next few steps move quickly!

3. Add the diced onion and minced garlic to the dutch oven. Cook and stir for about 1 minute.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 1 yellow onion, diced; 4 cloves garlic, minced.

4. Add chopped thyme, chopped rosemary, dried oregano, and Italian seasoning. Cook and stir for about 1 minute longer.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 1 tsp fresh thyme, finely chopped; 1 tsp fresh rosemary, finely chopped; 1/2 tsp dried oregano; 1/2 tsp Italian seasoning

5. Add tomato paste. Cook for about 1 minute longer.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 1/4 cup tomato paste.

6. Add the beef broth, Worcestershire sauce, and red wine, then scrape the bottom of the dutch oven. Return the roast to the dutch oven.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 2 cups beef broth; 1 tbsp worcestershire sauce; 2 cups red wine.

7. Add the quartered onion, whole garlic cloves, carrots, rosemary sprigs, and bay leaves to the dutch oven.

    !!! ingredients
        **Using:** 1 yellow onion, quartered; 4 cloves garlic, whole; 2 cups carrots; 3 sprigs fresh rosemary; 2 bay leaves.

8. Cover the pot first with aluminum foil, then a tight-fitting pot lid, to keep in as much moisture as possible. Place the sealed pot in the oven and cook for 3-4 hours until fork tender. Allow to rest for at least 15 minutes before serving to allow for proper cooling.
